The Analyze feature allows a user to understand why the distribution of data looks the way it does.

Time series charts can be imported from AppSource.

The AI Splits feature in Power BI is a functionality within the Decomposition Tree visual.
It uses artificial intelligence (AI) to automatically identify and suggest factors that contribute the most to a given value or trend in your data.

AI splits work by considering all the available fields and determining which one to drill into to get the highest/lowest value of a measure that is being analyzed.

you can access the Q&A feature by selecting the Q&A button type.

Decomposition tree can enable one to:
Conduct root cause analysis to understand a measure better.
Automatically analyze selected dimensions to find where a measure is highest or lowest.

If edit interactions is not set when you select a value in the line chart it will cross filter the other visuals otherwise nothing will happen

You plan to create the chart shown in the following exhibit.
How should you create the dashed horizontal line denoting the 40th percentile of daily sales for the period shown?
Add a new percentile line that uses Total Sales as the measure and 40% as the percentile.

R plots are limited to 150,000 rows

You use Power BI Desktop to create a visualization for a Microsoft SQL Server data source.
You need to ensure that you can use R visualization.
Which two actions should you perform?
Enable R Scripting on the computer that has Power BI Desktop installed, Download and install Microsoft R on the computer that has Power BI Desktop installed.

How does the admin workspace role differ from other types of workspace roles?
Admins are the only role that can remove users.

What feature in Power BI service can you use to troubleshoot the flow of data from its source to destination?
Lineage view

You have multiple dashboards.
You need to ensure that when users browse the available dashboards from powerbi.com, they can see which dashboards contain Personally Identifiable Information (PII). The solution must minimize configuration effort and impact on the dashboard design.
What should you use?
Microsoft Information Protection sensitivity labels

In the Power BI service, sensitivity labels can be applied to semantic models, reports, dashboards, and dataflows.
When labeled data leaves Power BI, either via export to Excel, PowerPoint, PDF, or .pbix files, or via other supported export scenarios such as Analyze in Excel or live connection PivotTables in Excel, Power BI automatically applies the label to the exported file and protects it according to the label's file encryption settings.
This way your sensitive data can remain protected, even when it leaves Power BI.

Your company plans to completely separate development and production assets such as datasets, reports, and dashboards in Microsoft Power BI.
You need to recommend an application lifecycle strategy.
The solution must minimize access to production assets and prevent end users from viewing the development assets. What should you recommend?
Create a workspace for development and a workspace for production. From the production workspace, publish an app.

Uses data stoed in microsoft one drive for business and uses custom visuals - These two can be embedded in a website
RLS, Report shared to user account, uses on prem SSAS DB these reports can't be embedded in a website.

To manage those that have access to apps - From the Office 365 Admin center, click Groups.

Your organization has a Microsoft Office 365 subscription.
When the users attempt to access the Power BI Service, they receive the error message shown in the exhibit.
(Your IT has turned off signup options)
From Microsoft Azure PowerShell, run the Set-MsolCompanySettings cmdlet.
The Set-MsolCompanySettings cmdlet is used to set company-level configuration settings.

Access a published power BI APP - You need a fee license fo this. Modify reports in an app wokspace you need a PRO license for this. Share dashboards create in my worspace need a PRO licese.

Power BI Premium is cheaper to procure compared to Power BI Pro - if you have like 1000 users and all to use the reports

You plan to deploy a Power BI app workspace that will be viewed by 10,000 users.
You need to ensure that dashboard data can be updated every 30 minutes.
What should you do?
Configure the app workspace for Premium capacity.

Free users can't access other app workspaces but only if the workspace is backed up by a premium license.
Admin roles are the only ones that can add others as members

Power BI Admin portal
Scale up customers capacity by accessing it from pricing tier from Azure Portal

From the app workspace settings, add a member.
All the members of a workspace can automatically see the APP related to this workspace.
So, we should add USER1 as a member is this workspace

Member can delete reports but Contributor cannot delete (They can only Create and edit but not delete)

Your company has a custom line-of-business application named SalesApp.
The developers of SalesApp want to push data into the Power BI service to create several visualizations.
You need to ensure that the developers can push the data from SalesApp to the Power BI service.
What should you do?
Go to dev.powerbi.com/apps and register an application.

What reserved parameters configure the start and end of where incremental refresh should occur?
RangeStart and RangeEnd

Promotion does not need specific permissions while Certification requires permission from the dataset owner to access the dataset.

Promotion: No special permissions required; it's a label to highlight important content.
Certification: Requires dataset owner’s permission; it guarantees trust and accuracy.

You are building a dataset from a JSON file that contains an array of documents.
You need to import attributes as columns from all the documents in the JSON file.
The solution must ensure that date attributes can be used as date hierarchies in Microsoft Power BI reports.
convert list to a table,expand the columns, set the data types

You have a Power BI tenant.
You have reports that use financial datasets and are exported as PDF files.
You need to ensure that the reports are encrypted.
What should you implement?
sensitivity labels

You create a report by using Microsoft Power BI Desktop.
The report uses data from a Microsoft SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS) cube located on your company's internal network.
You plan to publish the report to the Power BI Service.

What should you implement to ensure that users who consume the report from the Power BI Service have the most up-to-date data from the cube?
an On-premises data gateway

Static Role:
Purpose: Controls data access for different users based on predefined rules.
Functionality:
Created using Row-Level Security (RLS) in Power BI.
Filters data dynamically based on the user's role or identity (e.g., a "Sales Manager" role might only see sales data for their region).
Applies to all reports using the dataset, ensuring secure data sharing.
Example: A role that ensures "Kenya Sales Rep" only sees sales data from Kenya.

Bookmark:
Purpose: Saves and restores a specific report view for all users.
Functionality:
Created in the Power BI report view.
Captures visual settings like applied filters, slicers, sorting, and visual configurations.
Does not affect the underlying data security; anyone with access to the report can use the bookmark.

Is it possible for a user to be a part of two RLS roles?
Yes, the roles will be combined for the user
If a user is part of two roles, the RLS roles are combined for the individual.

benefit of incremental refresh?
Faster refresh times
More reliable
Reduced resource usage

Incremental refresh in Power BI needs query folding because query folding ensures that the filtering, transformations, and partitioning logic can be pushed back to the data source for efficient processing.
Without query folding, the entire dataset must be loaded into memory, which defeats the purpose of incremental refresh and can cause performance issues.

Query folding is the ability for Power Query to generate a single query statement to retrieve and transform source data to improve the efficiency of the Power Query engines.
Unfortunately, flat files do not support query folding.

1. Download ad install an on-premises data gateway (Personal Mode), as this is the only gateway you can choose based on the task given option
2. Configure the Gateway Connections settings for the dataset
3. Configure the Schedule Refresh settings for the dataset

You modify the dataset to allow featured questions to show as suggested Q&As.


Dataset1 and Dataset2 are both contained in the app,
therefore for you to be able to delete dataset2 you need to first unpublish the app ,
delete the unwanted dataset and then republish the app.

USERPRINCIPALNAME() - function will tell you the logged on username in the Power BI Service

If a report end user switches regions, one need to request them to be added to the correct Azure Active directory group

I a user has two roles they can see in the RLS, they will see data which the State Province value is Kentucky and the Calendar Year is 2020.

Which of the following functions allows you to define filtered views for a specific list of users? USERPRINCIPALNAME()

RLS rules can be applied to users with which permission level? Viewers

You configure row-level security (RLS) so that the district managers of the stores only see the sales from the stores they manage.
When the district managers view the Store by Items report, they see items for all the stores.
You need to ensure that the district managers can see items for the stores they manage only.
How should you configure the relationship from Sales to Item?
Change the Cross filter direction to Both.

Summary statistics about SalesDetail data: create blank query as dataYou are modeling data by using Microsoft Power BI.
Part of the data model is a large Microsoft SQL Server table named Order that has more than 100 million records.
During the development process, you need to import a sample of the data from the Order table. 
Solution: You add a report-level filter that filters based on the order date. Does this meet the goal?source,
specify thequery table.profile (#salesdetail), create a visual for query table.
No
The filter is applied after the data is imported. Instead add a WHERE clause to the SQL statement.

Step 1: Open the Dashboard.
Step 2: Change the dashboard view to Phone view
Step 3: Pin items from the reports to the dashboard.
Step 4: Rearrange, resize, or remote items from the Phone view.

1. Select the line chart
2. From the Analytics pane, Add the average line
3. Turn on Data Label for the new line.

1. Duplicate the Customer query
2. Group the CustomerGrouped query to find the max modified date
3. Merge the two queries on inner join

A member can create and publish apps for PowerBI
Contributor can publish reports to a worksace and delete dashboards

To add  synonyms on Power BI App:
open report using power bi desktop
edit the synonyms
publish reort to app workspaces
update the app from bi.com

Measure1 = DIVIDE([TotalSales], CALCULATE([TotalSales],
ALL(Sales[ProductCategory], Sales[ProductSubcategory])))

You create a report in Power BI Desktop.
You need to embed the report into a Microsoft SharePoint Online site.
Which three actions should you perform in sequence?
Publish your Power BI report to your Power BI account
Get the URL to the report
Add the Power BI (preview) web part to your SharePoint Online page
Paste the URL of the report when prompted
To finish, save and publish your page

Instead create a percentile line by using the Salary measure and set the percentile to 50%.
Note: The 50th percentile is also known as the median or middle value where 50 percent of observations fall below.

The question asked to grant read only access to it's viewer. Based on the attached reference on workspaces,
the Viewer role gives a read-only experience to its users. They can view dashboards, reports, or workbooks in the workspace,
but can’t browse the datasets or dataflows.
Instead assign all the users the Viewer role to the workspace.
Note: The Viewer role gives a read-only experience to its users.
They can view dashboards, reports, or workbooks in the workspace,
but cant browse the datasets or dataflows. Use the Viewer role wherever you would previously use a classic workspace set to Members can only view Power BI content.

You have several reports and dashboards in a workspace.
You need to grant all organizational users read access to a dashboard and several reports.
Give them view access 

the Viewer role gives a read-only experience to its users.
They can view dashboards, reports, or workbooks in the workspace,
but can’t browse the datasets or dataflows.

If you want to add a formula, then add a custom column.
A conditional column is just a custom column with a form that creates the formula for you.

You need to create a hierarchy that has Category, Subcategory, and Product.
To the product table, add a column named SubCategory that uses the RELATED ('Product SubCategory'[SubCategory]) DAX Function
To the Product table, add a column named category that uses the RELATED('Product Category'[Category]) DAX Function
Create a hierarchy

Product Ranking = RANKX(ALL('Product'), [SalesAmount],,DESC, Dense)

You can write a filter over two columns using a filter over the entire table that contains both columns.
[Sales Red or Contoso - table filter] :=
CALCULATE (
[Sales Amount],
FILTER (
'Product',
'Product'[Color] = "Red" || 'Product'[Brand] = "Contoso"
)
)

You plan to add a table named Date to the model. The table will have columns for the date, year, month, and end of the last month, and will include data from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2015.
The Date table and the Sales table will have a relationship.
Which DAX functions should you use to create the columns?
CALENDAR, YEAR, MONTH, and EOMONTH
CALENDAR instead of CALENDARAUTO is because we need to specify Jan 1 to Dec 31 frm 2013 to 2015.
What if auto may give u Jan something else.

EOMONTH instead of EndOfMonth is because we EOM returns a date, EndofM return a table.

CALCULATE( COUNT(Sales[ShipDate]), FILTER(Sales, NOT(ISBLANK(Sales[ShipDate])) ) )

You should prevent users to export data from here;
Power Bi Admin Portal -> Tenant Settings -> Export data
(From the Microsoft Office 365 Admin center, you modify the properties of Contoso PowerBI.)

Developer settings are only for Apps and APIs. Therefore does not meet the goal-not for the wokspace

IFrames can only be embedded into internal pages and need authentication, while the question wants to address external users.

The only method of sharing a Report open to Free licence users is to publish the Report to the Web.
Moreover, question has stated users do not even have any Power BI license.
Shared capacity (10 GB) means only Pro level license, which only could work with Pro user as well,
unless organization holds a Premium license with Premium capacity ( > 10 GB) which just could work with whichever user (including free user).
So you need you need PREMIUM license.

From the data security perspective,
premium capacity could share to anyone (free end user), and assign role as "Viewer only".

Aim is to have Power View sheets shown as Reports. That's done via Publish -> Export.

Export workbook data to Power BI
When you choose the Export option,
any supported data in tables and/or a data model are exported into a new dataset in Power BI.
Any Power View sheets in the workbook are re-created in Power BI as reports.

Excel workbook -> publish -> “upload’ -> PowerBI.com “connect” (view only in powerBI, only editable in Excel workbook)
Excel workbook -> publish -> “export’ -> PowerBI.com “import” (sync both side, editable both side and updated both side)

FORMAT('Date'[date], "MMM YYYY") - gettig month value.

Answer is Create a security role that has a table filter on the Sales_Manager table where username = UserName().

The Power BI DAX USERNAME() function helps to return the user domain login with the form of (DomainUser) in the locality or your local system.
The Power BI DAX USERPRINCIPALNAME() function helps to return the user principal name with the form of (User’s login credential or Preeti@.onmicrosoft.com) in the Power BI Online Service.
Assuming username in the table contains DomainUser data, answer is A. If you are accessing the table it will be using the username.
If it was in BI Service you will use userprincipalname()

Answer is an additional date table named ShipDate, a one-to-many relationship from Date[date_id] to Sales[Sales_date_id], and a one-to-many relationship from ShipDate[date_id] to Sales[sales_ship_date_id]

Scenario:
The customer service department requires a visual that can be filtered by both sales month and ship month independently.
In Power BI Desktop, only one relationship can be active between a Fact table and Dimension table, so we need an extra table.
Use one-to-many relationship to be able to filter.

A Key Performance Indicator (KPI) is a visual cue that communicates the amount of progress made toward a measurable goal.
indicator sales[amount], trend axis[date column], target [sales_target]

