Node.js
To develop custom visuals, you need to have NodeJS installed with Power BI tools and a server certificate.

Scatter charts are used to explore relationships and patterns between two numerical data points.
purpose of the key influencers visual in Power BI?To understand factors driving a specific metric

Which feature in a scatter chart helps identify patterns, clusters, or outliers? The "Automatically find clusters" feature in scatter charts groups similar data points.

What type of analysis can be performed using the decomposition tree visual?Exploratory breakdown of measures across dimensions

Data classification labels or categorizes data based on sensitivity, ensuring compliance with governance policies.

Only certain visuals like cards, KPIs, and gauges support individual pinning for alerts. Slicers cannot be pinned individually.

custom visuals must be imported from AppSource each time you start developing a new report.

One can analyze the performance of each of the report elements by using the performance analyzer 

Can you use bookmarks to create a slide show in Power BI?
Yes, you can, by adding buttons as navigation to go between saved bookmarks.

custom streaming data
The only way to visualize a streaming dataset is to add a tile and use the streaming dataset as a custom streaming data source.

You create a dashboard by using the Microsoft Power BI Service. The dashboard contains a card visual that shows total sales from the current year.
You grant users access to the dashboard by using the Viewer role on the workspace.
A user wants to receive daily notifications of the number shown on the card visual.
You need to automate the notifications.
What should you do?
Create a subscription.
You can subscribe yourself and your colleagues to the report pages, dashboards, and paginated reports that matter most to you. Power BI e-mail subscriptions allow you to:
- Decide how often you want to receive the emails: daily, weekly, hourly, monthly, or once a day after the initial data refresh.
- Choose the time you want to receive the email, if you choose daily, weekly, hourly, or monthly.
Note: Email subscriptions don't support most custom visuals. The one exception is those custom visuals that have been certified.
Email subscriptions don't support R-powered custom visuals at this time.

The key influencers visual helps you understand the factors that drive a metric you're interested in. It analyzes your data, ranks the factors that matter, and displays them as key influencers.
The key influencers visual is a great choice if you want to:
- See which factors affect the metric being analyzed.
- Contrast the relative importance of these factors. For example, do short-term contracts have more impact on churn than long-term contracts?

You have a dataset named Pens that contains the following columns:
- Unit Price
- Quantity Ordered
You need to create a visualization that shows the relationship between Unit Price and Quantity Ordered. The solution must highlight orders that have a similar unit price and ordered quantity.
Which type of visualization and which feature should you use?
A scatter plot.
A scatter chart always has two value axes to show: one set of numerical data along a horizontal axis and another set of numerical values along a vertical axis.
The chart displays points at the intersection of an x and y numerical value, combining these values into single data points.
Power BI may distribute these data points evenly or unevenly across the horizontal axis. It depends on the data the chart represents.
Automatically find clusters
Scatter charts are a great choice to show patterns in large sets of data, for example by showing linear or non-linear trends, clusters, and outliers.

Scatter Charts
Purpose: Displays data points based on two numerical variables plotted on the X and Y axes.
Use Cases:
Analyze relationships between two variables.
Spot patterns, clusters, and outliers in data.
Substitute for line charts to reveal scale changes.
Features:
Maximum of 10,000 data points.
Tooltip support for detailed information on data points.
Adjustable axis scales (including logarithmic).

Outliers are those data points that lie outside the overall pattern of distribution & the easiest way to detect outliers is though graphs.
  Box plots, Scatter plots can help detect them easily.

The best data for forecasting is time series data or uniformly increasing whole numbers is Line Chart. The line chart has to have only one line.
Try forecasting: Try the new forecasting capabilities of Power View today on your own data or with the sample report available as part of the Power BI report samples. 
To view your own data, upload a workbook with a Power View time series line chart to Power BI for Office 365.

Common use cases for scatter charts include showing patterns in large sets of data, showing linear & non-linear trends, 
performing cluser analysis, and identifying outliers.

The Q&A visual lets you explore data "in your own words" using what?
Natural language queries

Visual level filters apply only to the specific visual in which they are defined.

The decomposition tree visual allows you to perform exploratory analysis by successively breaking down a measure across multiple dimensions.
The key influencers visual helps you understand the factors that drive a specific metric.

From the properties of the datasets, modify the Q&A and Cortana settings - to get natural language queries for the Q&A
You can modify the setting for Dataset property for sure. Not from Dashboard property.

When using New Parameter it automatically creates GENERATESERIES function. 
Second, in GENERATESERIES function the second parameter is the max value which is 0,5.

From the Modeling tab, change the Data Type to Percentage.

Changing scorecard to %
Go to "Table View" Modeling ribbon tab, 

Convert the visualization to a different type.

KPI doesn't have SORT option. You need to start over again.

Converting to different visual type just in order to view the month sequence, and then go to Table View,
selecting the month column, and click “Sort by column” under Ribbon Tab “Table Tools”, 
selecting the “Sort by Month #”, and back to Visual interface, check the result (month(text) sequence), 
if ok, convert back to KPI visual.

a report published to the web cannot implement row level security


Key Note: Once you convert the visualization to a KPI, there's no option to sort. You must sort it correctly now.
change the Data Type to "percentage" and keep 2 decimal.

Power BI Report Server is an on-premises report server where organizations can host, manage, 
and share Power BI reports, paginated reports, and traditional SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) reports.
It’s ideal for companies that don’t want to or cannot use the Power BI Service (cloud-based) due to compliance,
security, or infrastructure reasons.
- Report1.pbix contains a custom visualization.
- Report2.pbix implements row level security.
- Report3.pbix connects to a Microsoft SQL Server database by using DirectQuery.
all eports can be published to report server but repot2 is not possible when publishing to the web
Dashboard : A canvas of report elements that can be built in the Power BI service.

Benefit of PowerBI realtime streaming capabilities
You can stream data and update dashboards as soon as the data is logged.

Pinning a page is an easy way to pin more than one visualization at a time.
Also, when you pin an entire page, the tiles are live; you can interact with them right there on the dashboard.

What feature in dashboards is used to alert consumers to the sensitivity of the data?
Data classification - Data Classification refers to the process of labeling or categorizing data based on its sensitivity or intended use. 
It helps organizations manage and secure their data, ensuring compliance with regulations and governance policies.

Report interactions allow you to define how filters applied to one visual impact the others. 
The options are: filter, which produces a fully filtered chart; highlight, which produced a chart that highlights the filtered segments; 
and none, in which the chart remains unfiltered. Drill through is a separate type of filter.

Drill through filters allow users to jump to different report pages (like bookmarks), while simultaneously filtering based on the specific item selected

Importing custom visuals from files, your organization, or the AppSource marketplace requires you to sign in to Power BI.

Themes: Promote brand consistency.
Layer Order: Ensure visuals appear as intended without overlap issues.
Tab Order: Improve report usability and accessibility for all users.
All the above are examples of Power BI's different accessibility features that allow consumers to easily navigate reports.

Slicers cannot be pinned to a dashboard individually, they need to be pinned as part of a live page.

The Pin Live Page option pins an entire report to a dashboard while also importing slicers,
preserving functionality, and reflecting any updates to the report.

Alerts can only be set on tiles pinned from report visuals, and only on gauges, KPIs, and cards.
After you create your Publish to web embed code and share it, the report is updated with any changes you make,
and the embed code link is immediately active. Anyone who opens the link can view it.
After this initial action, however, updates to reports or visuals can take approximately one hour before becoming visible to your users.

For pubnub data, we can visualize it using data tile on dashboard and configure pubnub as data source.

You create a new report.
You need to ensure that users have a good experience when they consume the report on a mobile device.
What are two ways to achieve the goal? Each correct answer presents a complete solution.
Create a mobile report layout in Power BI Desktop and publish the report.
Navigate to PowerBI.com on a mobile device and test the experience.

Why are parameters important in Power BI paginated reports?
They allow the user to control aspects of how the report is rendered when the report is run.

Power BI paginated reports are created by using which tool?
Power BI Report Builder

R visuals in the Power BI service have a few limitations including:
- Data size limitations data used by the R visual for plotting is limited to 150,000 rows.
If more than 150,000 rows are selected, only the top 150,000 rows are used and a message is displayed on the image.
Additionally, the input data has a limit of 250 MB.

