Which Power Query tool can you use to roll-up daily transaction data into monthly transactions
Group By function
“Pivoting” is a fancy way to describe the process of turning distinct row values into columns (“pivoting”) or turning columns into rows (“unpivoting”).
Which two blocks make up the M code that runs your query?
let & in - Opening the advanced editor allows you to see the M code that makes up your query, 
which consists of two blocks: let (the definition of all variables) & in (the output of your query)

You manage a Power BI model that has two tables named Sales and Product.
You need to ensure that a sales team can view only data that has a CountryRegionName value of Unites States and a ProductCategory value of Clothing.
From Power BI Desktop, create a new role that has the following filters. [CountryRegionName] = "United States" [ProductCategory] = "Clothing"
Note: you can't filter 2 columns from 2 DIFFERENT TABLES using && but you can use && in case of the columns you wanna filter in the SAME TABLE only, so
(From Power BI Desktop, create a new role that has the following filter. [CountryRegionName] = "United States" && [ProductCategory] = "Clothing")
in incorrect.

When you attempt to create a map that shows SalesAmount by Zone, you discover that the map shows a bubble based on cities instead of states.
You need to ensure that the map shows bubbles based on states.
What should you do?
This is a common problem when the data in your location field is ambiguous, such as using an area name like Washington, 
which could indicate a state or a district.
One way to resolve the location data problem is to rename your column to be more specific, such as State. 
Another way is to manually reset the data category by selecting Data Category on the Modeling tab. From the Data Category list,
you can assign a category to your data such as "State" or "City." (https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/guided-learning/visualizations#step-5)

From the Extract menu, click Text After Delimiter.
When you need to end with one column. You need to remove the part you are not interested in. The "Text Delimited" option in the Extract Menu

Transform > Format > Trim (how o access trim function in powerBI)

You plan to use Power BI Desktop to import 100 CSV files.
The files contain data from different stores. The files have the same structure and are stored in a network share.
You need to import the CSV files into one table. The solution must minimize administrative effort.
What should you do?
Add a folder data source and use the Combine Files command.

You are previewing an Excel file in Power Query Editor in Power BI Desktop. The file contains data in a matrix format with years on the columns, months on the rows, and sales amount in the values.
You need to shape the data into a table with three columns.
What should you do? Unpivot

Fact tables store observations or events while dimension tables contain information about specific entities within the data

Cardinality is the direction that the data flows in a relationship between two tables

A dimension that can filter related facts differently is called a Role-Playing Dimension
A Role-Playing Dimension is a single dimension table that can be used in different ways (or "roles") to filter fact data. For example:
A Date dimension can be used to filter by Order Date, Ship Date, or Delivery Date in the same fact table.
Each "role" creates a separate relationship to the fact table, allowing you to analyze data based on different contexts.
This is common in star schemas where a single dimension serves multiple purposes

One-to-many
A customer can have many invoices within one month.
Single
For One-to-many relationships, the cross filter direction is always from the "one" side, and optionally from the "many" side (bi-directional).
For Single cross filter direction means "single direction", and Both means "both directions". A relationship that filters in both directions is commonly described as bi- directional.
What turns a collection of independent tables into a data model? Connecting the tables via relationships, based on their common fields
In a data model, tables are connected via relationships, based on their common fields

A well designed model is critical and ideally should use a star schema with one-to-many (1:*) relationships, NOT many-to-many

Which of the following fields would typically find in a data table?(Look for numeric values)

Primary keys uniquely identify each row of a table, and match the foreign keys in related data tables.

Merging data by pulling all the attributes into the fact table itself creates redundant data
and utilizes significantly more memory and processing power than creating relationships between multiple small tables.

In a one-to-many relationship cardinality, what is the "many" attached to?
Foreign key
Cardinality refers to the uniqueness of values in a column, and whenever there is only one instance of each value, then it is a primary key,
if there are many instances then it is a foreign key.

filter flow - 
The filter directions (arrows) in each relationship will point from the “one” side of the relationship (lookups) to the “many” side (data) by default. 
When you filter a table, that filter context is passed along to all related “downstream” tables (following the direction of the arrow). 
Filters cannot flow “upstream” (against the direction of the arrow).

The USERELATIONSHIP function allows you to determine which relationship to use between to tables, including inactive relationships.

You have a new table named Fiscal that has the same schema as the Date table, but contains the fiscal dates of your company.
You need to create a report that displays the total sales by fiscal month and calendar month.
What should you do?
Merge Fiscal into the Date table.When Should You Use It?
When your data has gaps in a column and you need to repeat the last known value for those blank cells.
Common in scenarios like:
Group headers that only appear once for a group but should apply to all rows in that group.
Categorical data with blank rows for sub-items.
You need to ensure that the values in the Date column contain a date. Null values must be replaced with the date from the previous row.
What should you click on the Transform tab in Query Editor?
Fill, and then Down
Under Fill in the Transform ribbon, you DOWN (for replacing null values with preceding values, and UP (replaces null values with values after them).
Fill Down takes the value from the row above a blank cell in a column and copies it downward until it reaches a non-blank value or the end of the column.

Measures are calculated by demand and they ae also calculated based on the filters that are used by the report user

Which DAX function evaluates an expression in a modified filter context? CALCULATE
What type of Measure uses SUM to aggregate over one set of dimensions and a different aggregation over a different set of dimension?SemiAdditive

To remove columns with a suffix of sourceid in Power Query
let
    Source = [Your API Data], // Load your data source here
    ColumnsToRemove = List.Select(Table.ColumnNames(Source), each Text.EndsWith(_, "sourceid")),
    Result = Table.RemoveColumns(Source, ColumnsToRemove)
in
    Result



